Python scripts for the work of identifiying high-mass starless clumps in the Galactic plane.

From 10861 ATLASGAL clumps, we identify 463 high-mass starless clump (HMSC) candidates with  |l|\<60 degree and |b|\<1 degree.All of these sources have been queried in SIMBAD to make sure they are not associated with any known star-forming indicator. Young stellar objects were identified from the GLIMPSE catalog using color-based criteria and the associated clumps were excluded. We also make sure that the HMSC candidates have neither point sources at 24 and 70 micrion nor strong extended emission at 24 micron. Most of the identified HMSCs are infrareddark and some are even dark at 70 micron. Their distribution shows crowding in Galactic spiral arms and towardthe Galactic center and some well known star-forming complexes,and some HMSCs are associated with large-scale filaments.Some basic parameters were attained fromcolumn density and dust temperature maps which were constructed via fitting far-infrared and submillimeter continuum data tomodified blackbodies. The HMSC candidates have sizes, masses, and densities similar to clumps associated with Class II methanol masers and HII regions, suggesting that these starless clumps will evolve into star-forming clumps. More than90\% of the HMSC candidates have densities above someproposed thresholds for forming high-mass stars. The HMSC candidates have dust temperatures and luminosity-to-mass ratios significantly lowerthan star-forming sources, suggesting they are genuinely at very early stages of high-mass star formation. Seventeen sources with \$ r_\mathrm{eq}\<0.15 \$ pcand $\Sigma>0.08$ g cm$^{-2}$ could be possiblehigh-mass starless cores. Further investigations towardthese HMSCs would undoubtedly shed light on comprehensively understanding the birth of high-mass stars.
